README.md, before:

# labeling_test

<!-- WARNING: THIS FILE WAS AUTOGENERATED! DO NOT EDIT! -->

This repo code mostly taken from
[here](https://github.com/NielsRogge/Transformers-Tutorials/blob/master/PerSAM/Personalize_SAM_with_one_shot_using_Hugging_Face.ipynb)

## Install

``` sh
git clone git@github.com:HasanGoni/labeling_test.git
cd labelling_test
pip install -e .
```

``` python
from huggingface_hub import hf_hub_download
from PIL import Image
import cv2
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
import torch
import torch.nn.functional as F
from torchvision.transforms.functional import resize, to_pil_image
import numpy as  np
from pathlib import Path
from typing import Tuple, List, Union
from transformers import AutoProcessor, SamModel
```

    2024-01-08 20:37:01.443137: E external/local_xla/xla/stream_executor/cuda/cuda_dnn.cc:9261] Unable to register cuDNN factory: Attempting to register factory for plugin cuDNN when one has already been registered
    2024-01-08 20:37:01.443177: E external/local_xla/xla/stream_executor/cuda/cuda_fft.cc:607] Unable to register cuFFT factory: Attempting to register factory for plugin cuFFT when one has already been registered
    2024-01-08 20:37:01.443847: E external/local_xla/xla/stream_executor/cuda/cuda_blas.cc:1515] Unable to register cuBLAS factory: Attempting to register factory for plugin cuBLAS when one has already been registered
    2024-01-08 20:37:01.448608: I tensorflow/core/platform/cpu_feature_guard.cc:182] This TensorFlow binary is optimized to use available CPU instructions in performance-critical operations.
    To enable the following instructions: AVX2 FMA, in other operations, rebuild TensorFlow with the appropriate compiler flags.
    2024-01-08 20:37:02.074733: W tensorflow/compiler/tf2tensorrt/utils/py_utils.cc:38] TF-TRT Warning: Could not find TensorRT

## How to use

## Get data

``` python
# Downloading from Niels_rogge hugging face repo
# image file
file_name = hf_hub_download(repo_id="nielsr/persam-dog", filename="dog.jpg", repo_type="dataset")
# image mask file
m_file_name = hf_hub_download(repo_id="nielsr/persam-dog", filename="dog_mask.png", repo_type="dataset")
tst_im_path = hf_hub_download(
    repo_id="nielsr/persam-dog", 
    filename="new_dog.jpg", 
    repo_type="dataset")

ref_image = Image.open(file_name).convert('RGB')
ref_mask = cv2.imread(m_file_name)
ref_mask = cv2.cvtColor(ref_mask, cv2.COLOR_BGR2RGB)
tst_img = Image.open(tst_im_path).convert('RGB')
ref_image
```

![](index_files/figure-commonmark/cell-4-output-1.png)

``` python
tst_img
```

![](index_files/figure-commonmark/cell-5-output-1.png)

### getting model

``` python
processor = AutoProcessor.from_pretrained("facebook/sam-vit-huge")
# model = PerSamModel.from_pretrained("facebook/sam-vit-huge")
model = SamModel.from_pretrained("facebook/sam-vit-huge")
```

### getting first prediciton mask

``` python
device='cuda'
```

``` python
outputs, tst_feat,topk_xy, topk_label, input_sam, best_idx = get_first_prediction(
                                        ref_img=ref_image,
                                        ref_msk=ref_mask,
                                        tst_img=tst_img,
                                        model=model,
                                        processor=processor, 
                                        device=device,
                                        print_=False)
```

``` python
show_(outputs['pred_masks'].to('cpu').numpy()[0][0][0])
```

![](index_files/figure-commonmark/cell-9-output-1.png)

``` python
outputs_fr,_, _, _,masks_fr = get_first_refined_mask(
    ref_image=ref_image,
    ref_mask=ref_mask,
    tst_img=tst_img,
    processor=processor,
    model=model,
    print_=False,
    device=device,
     )
```

``` python
show_all_masks(masks_fr, outputs=outputs_fr)
```

![](index_files/figure-commonmark/cell-11-output-1.png)

``` python
output_f, masks_f = get_last_refined_masks(
    ref_image=ref_image,
    ref_mask=ref_mask,
    processor=processor,
    model=model,
    tst_img=tst_img,
    device='cuda',
    print_=False,
    outputs=outputs_fr,
    masks=masks_fr
)
```

``` python
show_all_masks(masks_f, outputs=output_f)
```

![](index_files/figure-commonmark/cell-13-output-1.png)

Commit message:

best_idx is added in case of best IoU doesnot provide the best mask

README.md, after:

# labeling_test

``` python
%load_ext autoreload 
%autoreload 2
```

    The autoreload extension is already loaded. To reload it, use:
      %reload_ext autoreload

> different tool for automation process of labeling will be tested here

This repo code mostly taken from
[here](https://github.com/NielsRogge/Transformers-Tutorials/blob/master/PerSAM/Personalize_SAM_with_one_shot_using_Hugging_Face.ipynb)

## Install

``` sh
git clone git@github.com:HasanGoni/labeling_test.git
cd labelling_test
pip install -e .
```

``` python
from huggingface_hub import hf_hub_download
from PIL import Image
import cv2
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
import torch
import torch.nn.functional as F
from torchvision.transforms.functional import resize, to_pil_image
import numpy as  np
from pathlib import Path
from typing import Tuple, List, Union
from transformers import AutoProcessor, SamModel
```

## How to use

::: {.cell 0=‘h’ 1=‘i’ 2=‘d’ 3=‘e’ execution_count=11}

``` python
from labeling_test.core import *
from labeling_test.os_persam import *
```

:::

## Get data

``` python
# Downloading from Niels_rogge hugging face repo
# image file
file_name = hf_hub_download(repo_id="nielsr/persam-dog", filename="dog.jpg", repo_type="dataset")
# image mask file
m_file_name = hf_hub_download(repo_id="nielsr/persam-dog", filename="dog_mask.png", repo_type="dataset")
tst_im_path = hf_hub_download(
    repo_id="nielsr/persam-dog", 
    filename="new_dog.jpg", 
    repo_type="dataset")

ref_image = Image.open(file_name).convert('RGB')
ref_mask = cv2.imread(m_file_name)
ref_mask = cv2.cvtColor(ref_mask, cv2.COLOR_BGR2RGB)
tst_img = Image.open(tst_im_path).convert('RGB')
ref_image
```

![](index_files/figure-commonmark/cell-5-output-1.png)

``` python
tst_img
```

![](index_files/figure-commonmark/cell-6-output-1.png)

### getting model

``` python
processor = AutoProcessor.from_pretrained("facebook/sam-vit-huge")
# model = PerSamModel.from_pretrained("facebook/sam-vit-huge")
model = SamModel.from_pretrained("facebook/sam-vit-huge")
     
```

### getting first prediciton mask

``` python
device='cuda'
```

``` python
outputs, tst_feat,topk_xy, topk_label, input_sam, best_idx = get_first_prediction(
                                        ref_img=ref_image,
                                        ref_msk=ref_mask,
                                        tst_img=tst_img,
                                        model=model,
                                        processor=processor, 
                                        device=device,
                                        print_=False)
```

``` python
show_(outputs['pred_masks'].to('cpu').numpy()[0][0][0])
```

![](index_files/figure-commonmark/cell-10-output-1.png)

``` python
outputs_fr,_, _, _,masks_fr = get_first_refined_mask(
    ref_image=ref_image,
    ref_mask=ref_mask,
    tst_img=tst_img,
    processor=processor,
    model=model,
    print_=False,
    device=device,
     )
```

``` python
show_all_masks(masks_fr, outputs=outputs_fr)
```

![](index_files/figure-commonmark/cell-12-output-1.png)

- Sometimes best IoU doesn’t provide the best mask, then use best_idx =
  index, if best IoU provide the best mask, then use best_idx=None

``` python
output_f, masks_f = get_last_refined_masks(
    ref_image=ref_image,
    ref_mask=ref_mask,
    processor=processor,
    model=model,
    tst_img=tst_img,
    device='cuda',
    print_=False,
    outputs=outputs_fr,
    masks=masks_fr,
    best_idx=None
)
```

``` python
show_all_masks(masks_f, outputs=output_f)
```

![](index_files/figure-commonmark/cell-14-output-1.png)
